CONFIG-SUMMARY.md, before:

# Configuration System Implementation Summary

## What Was Implemented

### 1. Core Configuration Module (`src/config.rs`)

A comprehensive configuration system that supports:
- **Three operating modes:**
  - `demo`: Original demonstration mode (no networking)
  - `bootstrap`: First IPCP in a DIF with static address
  - `member`: IPCP that enrolls with bootstrap to get address

- **Two configuration methods:**
  - Command-line arguments (using `clap`)
  - TOML configuration files (using `serde` and `toml`)

- **Full validation:**
  - Mode-specific required parameters
  - Automatic error messages with usage examples
  - Configuration summary display

### 2. Dependencies Added

```toml
clap = { version = "4.5", features = ["derive"] }  # CLI parsing
serde = { version = "1.0", features = ["derive"] }  # Serialization
toml = "0.8"                                        # TOML parsing
```

### 3. Updated Main Application (`src/main.rs`)

- Parses CLI arguments on startup
- Routes to appropriate mode implementation
- Three separate functions:
  - `run_demo_mode()` - Original demo
  - `run_bootstrap_mode(config)` - Bootstrap IPCP
  - `run_member_mode(config)` - Member IPCP

### 4. Example Configuration Files

- `config/bootstrap.toml` - Bootstrap IPCP template
- `config/member.toml` - Member IPCP template

### 5. Documentation

- `RUNNING.md` - Quick start guide
- `CONFIG-EXAMPLES.md` - Comprehensive examples and scenarios
- `test-config.sh` - Simple test script

## Configuration Parameters

### Bootstrap IPCP
```bash
--mode bootstrap
--name <ipcp-name>          # e.g., "ipcp-bootstrap"
--dif-name <dif>            # e.g., "production-dif"
--address <addr>            # e.g., 1001
--bind <ip:port>            # e.g., "0.0.0.0:7000"
--address-pool-start <addr> # optional, default: 1002
--address-pool-end <addr>   # optional, default: 1999
```

### Member IPCP
```bash
--mode member
--name <ipcp-name>          # e.g., "ipcp-member-1"
--dif-name <dif>            # e.g., "production-dif"
--bind <ip:port>            # e.g., "0.0.0.0:7001"
--bootstrap-peers <peers>   # e.g., "127.0.0.1:7000" or "host1:7000,host2:7000"
```

### Demo Mode
```bash
# No parameters required
--mode demo  # or just run without arguments
```

## Key Design Decisions

### 1. Separation of N-1 and N Layer Addressing

**N-1 Layer (UDP/IP):**
- `--bind 0.0.0.0:7000` - Where to bind UDP socket
- This is the "underlay" network addressing
- Fixed at startup

**N Layer (RINA):**
- `--address 1001` (bootstrap only)
- This is the DIF-level addressing
- Member IPCPs get this during enrollment

### 2. Config File Override

When `--config` is specified, it takes complete precedence:
```bash
# This uses the file, ignoring other args
cargo run -- --config config/bootstrap.toml --name ignored
```

### 3. Mode-Specific Validation

The configuration system validates parameters based on mode:
- Bootstrap requires: name, dif-name, address, bind
- Member requires: name, dif-name, bind, bootstrap-peers
- Demo requires: nothing (has defaults)

### 4. Backward Compatibility

Demo mode is the default, so existing behavior is preserved:
```bash
cargo run  # Still runs the original demo
```

## Example Usage

### Single Machine Development

**Terminal 1:**
```bash
cargo run -- --config config/bootstrap.toml
```

**Terminal 2:**
```bash
cargo run -- --config config/member.toml
```

### Multi-Machine Deployment

**Machine 1 (192.168.1.10):**
```bash
cargo run -- \
  --mode bootstrap \
  --name ipcp-bootstrap \
  --dif-name production-dif \
  --address 1001 \
  --bind 0.0.0.0:7000
```

**Machine 2 (192.168.1.20):**
```bash
cargo run -- \
  --mode member \
  --name ipcp-member-1 \
  --dif-name production-dif \
  --bind 0.0.0.0:7000 \
  --bootstrap-peers 192.168.1.10:7000
```

## Architecture Benefits

### 1. Clean Separation
- Each IPCP runs as a separate OS process
- Configuration determines its role and addressing
- No hardcoded values in production deployments

### 2. Flexible Deployment
- Same binary for bootstrap and member IPCPs
- Configuration at runtime via CLI or file
- Easy container/orchestration integration

### 3. RINA-Compliant
- Bootstrap IPCP manages address space
- Member IPCPs get addresses via enrollment
- Proper N-1 (shim) and N (DIF) layer separation

### 4. Testability
- Demo mode for unit testing
- Local multi-IPCP testing with different ports
- Distributed testing across machines

## What's Still TODO

### 1. Full Enrollment Protocol
Currently placeholder implemented. Needs:
- Actual EnrollmentRequest/Response messages
- CDAP-based RIB synchronization
- Address assignment logic
- Neighbor discovery

### 2. Inter-IPCP Communication
- Send/receive PDUs over shim layer
- CDAP message exchange over network
- Flow allocation between IPCPs

### 3. Dynamic Routing
- Route updates via CDAP
- Forwarding table synchronization
- Link state/distance vector protocols

### 4. Advanced Features
- Multiple DIFs per IPCP
- DIF hierarchy (N-DIF over N-1-DIF)
- Policy configuration via config file
- Hot-reload of configuration

## Files Modified/Created

```
Modified:
  Cargo.toml                 # Added dependencies
  src/lib.rs                 # Exported config module
  src/main.rs                # Complete rewrite with mode routing

Created:
  src/config.rs              # Configuration system
  config/bootstrap.toml      # Bootstrap template
  config/member.toml         # Member template
  RUNNING.md                 # Quick start guide
  CONFIG-EXAMPLES.md         # Comprehensive examples
  test-config.sh             # Test script
  CONFIG-SUMMARY.md          # This file
```

## Testing

### Build and Test
```bash
# Build
cargo build --release

# Test help
cargo run -- --help

# Test demo mode
cargo run

# Test bootstrap mode
cargo run -- --config config/bootstrap.toml

# Test member mode
cargo run -- --config config/member.toml
```

### Verification
All modes compile and run successfully:
- ✅ Demo mode works as before
- ✅ Bootstrap mode initializes with config
- ✅ Member mode initializes with config
- ✅ CLI argument parsing works
- ✅ TOML file parsing works
- ✅ Validation catches errors

## Conclusion

The configuration system is **complete and production-ready** for the current architecture. It provides:

1. **Flexible configuration** via CLI or TOML
2. **Multiple deployment modes** (demo, bootstrap, member)
3. **Proper RINA semantics** (N-1/N layer separation)
4. **Clear error messages** with usage examples
5. **Comprehensive documentation** with real-world examples

The foundation is in place for true multi-IPCP communication. The next step is implementing the enrollment protocol and inter-IPCP data exchange.

Commit message:

feat: Implemented phase 1 of enrolment.
Signed-off-by: Anirban Basu <anirbanbasu@users.noreply.github.com>

CONFIG-SUMMARY.md, after:

# Configuration System Implementation Summary

## What Was Implemented

### 1. Core Configuration Module (`src/config.rs`)

A comprehensive configuration system that supports:
- **Three operating modes:**
  - `demo`: Original demonstration mode (no networking)
  - `bootstrap`: First IPCP in a DIF with static address
  - `member`: IPCP that enrolls with bootstrap to get address

- **Two configuration methods:**
  - Command-line arguments (using `clap`)
  - TOML configuration files (using `serde` and `toml`)

- **Full validation:**
  - Mode-specific required parameters
  - Automatic error messages with usage examples
  - Configuration summary display

### 2. Dependencies Added

```toml
clap = { version = "4.5", features = ["derive"] }  # CLI parsing
serde = { version = "1.0", features = ["derive"] }  # Serialization
toml = "0.8"                                        # TOML parsing
```

### 3. Updated Main Application (`src/main.rs`)

- Parses CLI arguments on startup
- Routes to appropriate mode implementation
- Three separate functions:
  - `run_demo_mode()` - Original demo
  - `run_bootstrap_mode(config)` - Bootstrap IPCP
  - `run_member_mode(config)` - Member IPCP

### 4. Example Configuration Files

- `config/bootstrap.toml` - Bootstrap IPCP template
- `config/member.toml` - Member IPCP template

### 5. Documentation

- `RUNNING.md` - Quick start guide
- `CONFIG-EXAMPLES.md` - Comprehensive examples and scenarios
- `test-config.sh` - Simple test script

## Configuration Parameters

### Bootstrap IPCP
```bash
--mode bootstrap
--name <ipcp-name>          # e.g., "ipcp-bootstrap"
--dif-name <dif>            # e.g., "production-dif"
--address <addr>            # e.g., 1001
--bind <ip:port>            # e.g., "0.0.0.0:7000"
--address-pool-start <addr> # optional, default: 1002
--address-pool-end <addr>   # optional, default: 1999
```

### Member IPCP
```bash
--mode member
--name <ipcp-name>          # e.g., "ipcp-member-1"
--dif-name <dif>            # e.g., "production-dif"
--bind <ip:port>            # e.g., "0.0.0.0:7001"
--bootstrap-peers <peers>   # e.g., "127.0.0.1:7000" or "host1:7000,host2:7000"
```

### Demo Mode
```bash
# No parameters required
--mode demo  # or just run without arguments
```

## Key Design Decisions

### 1. Separation of N-1 and N Layer Addressing

**N-1 Layer (UDP/IP):**
- `--bind 0.0.0.0:7000` - Where to bind UDP socket
- This is the "underlay" network addressing
- Fixed at startup

**N Layer (RINA):**
- `--address 1001` (bootstrap only)
- This is the DIF-level addressing
- Member IPCPs get this during enrolment

### 2. Config File Override

When `--config` is specified, it takes complete precedence:
```bash
# This uses the file, ignoring other args
cargo run -- --config config/bootstrap.toml --name ignored
```

### 3. Mode-Specific Validation

The configuration system validates parameters based on mode:
- Bootstrap requires: name, dif-name, address, bind
- Member requires: name, dif-name, bind, bootstrap-peers
- Demo requires: nothing (has defaults)

### 4. Backward Compatibility

Demo mode is the default, so existing behavior is preserved:
```bash
cargo run  # Still runs the original demo
```

## Example Usage

### Single Machine Development

**Terminal 1:**
```bash
cargo run -- --config config/bootstrap.toml
```

**Terminal 2:**
```bash
cargo run -- --config config/member.toml
```

### Multi-Machine Deployment

**Machine 1 (192.168.1.10):**
```bash
cargo run -- \
  --mode bootstrap \
  --name ipcp-bootstrap \
  --dif-name production-dif \
  --address 1001 \
  --bind 0.0.0.0:7000
```

**Machine 2 (192.168.1.20):**
```bash
cargo run -- \
  --mode member \
  --name ipcp-member-1 \
  --dif-name production-dif \
  --bind 0.0.0.0:7000 \
  --bootstrap-peers 192.168.1.10:7000
```

## Architecture Benefits

### 1. Clean Separation
- Each IPCP runs as a separate OS process
- Configuration determines its role and addressing
- No hardcoded values in production deployments

### 2. Flexible Deployment
- Same binary for bootstrap and member IPCPs
- Configuration at runtime via CLI or file
- Easy container/orchestration integration

### 3. RINA-Compliant
- Bootstrap IPCP manages address space
- Member IPCPs get addresses via enrolment
- Proper N-1 (shim) and N (DIF) layer separation

### 4. Testability
- Demo mode for unit testing
- Local multi-IPCP testing with different ports
- Distributed testing across machines

## What's Still TODO

### 1. Full Enrolment Protocol
Currently placeholder implemented. Needs:
- Actual EnrolmentRequest/Response messages
- CDAP-based RIB synchronization
- Address assignment logic
- Neighbor discovery

### 2. Inter-IPCP Communication
- Send/receive PDUs over shim layer
- CDAP message exchange over network
- Flow allocation between IPCPs

### 3. Dynamic Routing
- Route updates via CDAP
- Forwarding table synchronization
- Link state/distance vector protocols

### 4. Advanced Features
- Multiple DIFs per IPCP
- DIF hierarchy (N-DIF over N-1-DIF)
- Policy configuration via config file
- Hot-reload of configuration

## Files Modified/Created

```
Modified:
  Cargo.toml                 # Added dependencies
  src/lib.rs                 # Exported config module
  src/main.rs                # Complete rewrite with mode routing

Created:
  src/config.rs              # Configuration system
  config/bootstrap.toml      # Bootstrap template
  config/member.toml         # Member template
  RUNNING.md                 # Quick start guide
  CONFIG-EXAMPLES.md         # Comprehensive examples
  test-config.sh             # Test script
  CONFIG-SUMMARY.md          # This file
```

## Testing

### Build and Test
```bash
# Build
cargo build --release

# Test help
cargo run -- --help

# Test demo mode
cargo run

# Test bootstrap mode
cargo run -- --config config/bootstrap.toml

# Test member mode
cargo run -- --config config/member.toml
```

### Verification
All modes compile and run successfully:
- ✅ Demo mode works as before
- ✅ Bootstrap mode initializes with config
- ✅ Member mode initializes with config
- ✅ CLI argument parsing works
- ✅ TOML file parsing works
- ✅ Validation catches errors

## Conclusion

The configuration system is **complete and production-ready** for the current architecture. It provides:

1. **Flexible configuration** via CLI or TOML
2. **Multiple deployment modes** (demo, bootstrap, member)
3. **Proper RINA semantics** (N-1/N layer separation)
4. **Clear error messages** with usage examples
5. **Comprehensive documentation** with real-world examples

The foundation is in place for true multi-IPCP communication. The next step is implementing the enrolment protocol and inter-IPCP data exchange.
