CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# DRAFT
The current instructions only provide information about licensing.

## Licensing & Contributions

By contributing to this project, you agree to the following:

1. **License:** Your contributions will be licensed under the **EUPL 1.2 (or later)**. 
2. **Media/Docs:** You grant the maintainers the right to re-license your documentation and media assets, but not the source code, under a more permissive licenses in the future.
3. **Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO):** To ensure a clear chain of ownership, we strongly suggest all commits to be "signed-off." 

### Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)
By adding `Signed-off-by: Your Name <email@example.com>` to your commit message, you certify that you have the right to submit the work under the terms of the [Developer Certificate of Origin 1.1](https://developercertificate.org).

To protect your privacy, you may use your _GitHub-provided no-reply email address_ or any other aliases for your signatures. 

If you use the GitHub-provided no-reply email, every signed-off commit, will look similar to `Signed-off-by: Real Name <username@users.noreply.github.com>`.

Commit message:

chore: Updated contributing guidelines.
Signed-off-by: Anirban Basu <anirbanbasu@users.noreply.github.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Thank you for your interest in contributing to ARI. Pull requests are welcome. However, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

We will, in the future, update this document with more detailed contribution guidelines.

## Licensing & Contributions

By contributing to this project, you agree to the following:

1. **License:** Your contributions will be licensed under the **EUPL 1.2 (or later)**.
2. **Media/Docs:** You grant the maintainers the right to re-license your documentation and media assets, but not the source code, under a more permissive licenses in the future.
3. **Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO):** To ensure a clear chain of ownership, we strongly suggest all commits to be "signed-off."

### Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)

By adding `Signed-off-by: Your Name <email@example.com>` to your commit message, you certify that you have the right to submit the work under the terms of the [Developer Certificate of Origin 1.1](https://developercertificate.org).

To protect your privacy, you may use your _GitHub-provided no-reply email address_ or any other aliases for your signatures.

If you use the GitHub-provided no-reply email, every signed-off commit, will look similar to `Signed-off-by: Real Name <username@users.noreply.github.com>`.
